Susanne Bilney                      Curriculum Vitae
26 Vanzuilecom Street
Kojonup
Western Australia, 6395 


M +0061 475696890 (hm) 
e  xkqk@gmail.com
 
	
Testimonials: 
From previous employers and colleagues

'Sue is trustworthy, strategic and dedicated, a most talented design facilitator, coder, analyst and programmer, she can turn her hand to most anything. Sue confidently takes in complex ideas, systematically extracts the business requirements, and then enhances the existing system.
A hugely productive analyst, an absolute asset to my team, she is, as effective as my best two programmers, rolled into one, an insightful, collaborative and very capable individual.'
													
Jane Cuddihy
Former Technical Team Leader
Centrelink  


'Susanne has excellent technical abilities with superior analysis... With attention to detail and inclusive communication strategies her IT documentation results are flawless.
She has an eye for the smallest details, her problem solving is exemplary and her specifications always well-researched and thorough, from inception to implementation.  
I have no hesitation recommending her.'
Stephen Rule
Former Technical Operations Manager 	
Centrelink

'I've worked with Sue on the delivery of several Rural Program policy and legislative changes.  Whilst working on these changes Sue was required to analyse, develop and implement new business functionality and provide solutions to complex existing and new production problems.  
At times, this work was difficult because business requirements were not always clear from Policy Departments and often changes to rural policy/legislation was in response to an 'emergency or crisis' which resulted in limited lead times.
Always a pleasure to work with, Sue targeted her verbal communication to meet the needs our business team and would always clarify and further explain IT concepts. This greatly assisted our team.  
Sue also took the time to understand our business needs and often communicated directly with those at the 'front-line' to ensure excellent outcomes when developing IT workflows, processes and solutions.'

Kerrie Bailey
Former Business Manager Farm Help
Centrelink
Dear Sir/Madam

I am an enthusiastic self-starter, enjoy helping people, researching and undertaking problem analysis, developing and nurturing working relationships,
and used all of these skills in teaching English in China, for three years in 2010,2012, 2013/2014, 207-2019.

In my years of teaching I have learnt that each class learns differently, some learn by numbers and word games, others by drawing or singing.  
It is important to use a variety of techniques which engage the student, motivate them to learn and more importantly get them to join in and practice speaking English.   

Prior to teaching English I worked as a senior computer programmer and business analyst for the Australian Government's Commonwealth Service Delivery Agency (Centrelink) for twenty years.  In all the work that I undertook one of my driving commitments was to always deliver computer systems/applications, which while implementing Government initiatives delivered improvements in delivery of those services.
 
My involvement of the following three major projects demonstrate my project management, planning, design skills, problem resolution, communication skills and willingness to take on challenges.

These projects were:
* Parental Income Review - Communication and networking skills enabled me to implement a strategic solution to the problem of tracking the return of forms, which ensured that customers did not have their payments cancelled. 
* Farm Help Project - Implemented Professional Advice & Training Grant, Small Business Grant, Re-entry Grant for Farmers, Farmers Exit Grant, Farmers Income Support services to support Farmers and Rural communities.  These services were delivered in short timeframes, changing business requirements and delivered assistance to rural communities. 
* Customer Appointments project - Implemented a consistent framework for the booking of external interpreters for all Centrelink customers which took into account their cultural requirements.

I have always found that by sharing knowledge with people is more empowering and sustaining, as they can identify with what that knowledge can do for them. 

In all my work I have found that if you are open and honest with people, take the time to understand their culture and background that a constructive relationship can be built.

This approach builds trust and rapport with people, giving people the confidence to ask the silly questions and thus they participate and learn more easily.


Skills 

In my work as an English teacher, I am proficient in using the internet for research, use of word processing and excel as well as using power point presentations for development of lessons.

Tertiary Qualifications 

YearDescriptionLevelPlace2009 Completed 120 hour TEFL certificate issued by www.i-to-i organization2008Completed IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) Foundation v3 Certificate Centrelink Training, Canberra Australian Capital Territory1993Technical and Business Writing, including Microsoft word processing and Excel. Centrelink Training, Canberra Australian Capital Territory1995Advanced Model204 - computer language  Centrelink Training, Canberra Australian Capital Territory1990Basics of Model204 - computer language  Centrelink Training, Canberra Australian Capital Territory1989Post Graduate Diploma in Computing Studies  Post Graduate Canberra College of Advanced Education, Canberra Australian Capital Territory1981Graduate Diploma in Extractive Metallurgy  Post Graduate WA School of Mines - branch of WA Institute of Technology, Kalgoorlie Western Australia1980Bachelor of Applied Science in Extractive Metallurgy Degree WA School of Mines - branch of WA Institute of Technology, Kalgoorlie Western Australia1976-1975Year 11 and 12 Secondary Methodist Ladies College, Clarement Perth Western Australia1964-1974Year 1 through to Year 10 Primary Kojonup District High School, Kojonup Western Australia		 
			 
Employment History 

The table below outlines my work history

Period			Role/Level		DescriptionFeb 2016 - May 2016	English Teacher		volunteer - private English teaching in Spain with two familiesAug 2015 - Dec 2015	English Teacher		volunteer - volunteer as an English teacher/assistant at a childrens orphange and 
							community organisation in Atenas Costa Rica and Playa Portero Costa Rica.Sep 2013 - Jun 2014	English Teacher 	Shouguang Century School, ChinaSep 2011 - Jun 2012	English Teacher 	Shaanxi Modern Bilingual School, ChinaSep 2010 - Jan 2011	English Teacher  	Waltstreet School Luipanshui, ChinaMar 2010 - Jul 2011	English Teacher 	Waltstreet School Luipanshui, ChinaSep 2009 - Aug 1989	Branch Incident/Problem/Configuration manager - SITOGC Senior Business Analyst - SITOGC Senior technical programmer - SITOGC Centrelink
1982-1986		Metallurgist		Woodlawn Mines, Tarago New South Wales Australia
Thank you for your time and interest.
Susanne Bilney



